utils/psh-applets/df.md, before:

# df

The `df` utility prints mounted filesystem statistics (disk space/inodes usage).

---

If used with `-h` parameter it prints the help message with possible arguments and parameters as follows:

```bash
Usage: df [options] [files]
  -T: print filesystem type
  -i: print inode information instead of block usage
  -h: print this help message
```

The utility prints information about the filesystem on which each file specified in `files` argument resides. The displayed information consists of:
1. Filesystem - mounted device path
2. Type - filesystem type, optional (see `-T` option)
3. 1K-blocks/Inodes - total number of 1K blocks/inodes available to the filesystem
4. Used - total number of 1K blocks/inodes used by the filesystem
5. Available - total number of 1K blocks/inodes free for use by the filesystem
6. Capacity - used blocks/inodes percent
7. Mounted on - filesystem mount point


## See also

1. [Phoenix-RTOS shell](psh.md)
2. [Phoenix-RTOS Utilities](README.md)
3. [Table of Contents](../README.md)

Commit message:

psh: add the example screenshot in df documentation
JIRA: DTR-100

utils/psh-applets/df.md, after:

# df

The `df` utility prints mounted filesystem statistics (disk space/inodes usage).

---

If used with `-h` parameter it prints the help message with possible arguments and parameters as follows:

```bash
Usage: df [options] [files]
  -T: print filesystem type
  -i: print inode information instead of block usage
  -h: print this help message
```

The utility prints information about the filesystem on which each file specified in `files` argument resides. The information displayed consists of:
1. Filesystem - mounted device path
2. Type - filesystem type, optional (see `-T` option)
3. 1K-blocks/Inodes - total number of 1K blocks/inodes available to the filesystem
4. Used - total number of 1K blocks/inodes used by the filesystem
5. Available - total number of 1K blocks/inodes free for use by the filesystem
6. Capacity - used blocks/inodes percent
7. Mounted on - filesystem mount point

The inodes statistics are available only for `ext2` filesystem. Neither `dummyfs` nor `jffs2` collect such global data.

The example of checking root directory on ia32-generic target architecture:

![image](_images/df_example.png)

## See also

1. [Phoenix-RTOS shell](psh.md)
2. [Phoenix-RTOS Utilities](README.md)
3. [Table of Contents](../README.md)
