# Synopsis 
`#include <signal.h>`</br>
` int pthread_sigmask(int how, const sigset_t *restrict set,`</br>
`        sigset_t *restrict oset);`</br>
` int sigprocmask(int how, const sigset_t *restrict set,`</br>
`        sigset_t *restrict oset); `</br>

## Status
Partially implemented
## Conformance
IEEE Std 1003.1-2017
## Description


The `pthread_sigmask()` function shall examine or change (or both) the calling thread's signal mask, regardless of the
number of threads in the process. The function shall be equivalent to `sigprocmask()`, without the restriction that the call
be made in a single-threaded process.
In a single-threaded process, the `sigprocmask()` function shall examine or change (or both) the signal mask of the calling
thread.
If the argument _set_ is not a `null` pointer, it points to a set of signals to be used to change the currently blocked
set.
The argument how indicates the way in which the set is changed, and the application shall ensure it consists of one of
the following values:

 * `SIG_BLOCK`
The resulting set shall be the union of the current set and the signal set pointed to by _set_.

 * `SIG_SETMASK`
The resulting set shall be the signal set pointed to by _set_.

 * `SIG_UNBLOCK`
The resulting set shall be the intersection of the current set and the complement of the signal set pointed to by
_set_.

If the argument _oset_ is not a `null` pointer, the previous mask shall be stored in the location pointed to by oset.
If _set_ is a `null` pointer, the value of the argument how is not significant and the thread's signal mask shall be
unchanged; thus the call can be used to enquire about currently blocked signals.
If there are any pending unblocked signals after the call to `sigprocmask()`, at least one of those signals shall be
delivered before the call to `sigprocmask()` returns.
It is not possible to block those signals which cannot be ignored. This shall be enforced by the system without causing an error
to be indicated.
If any of the `SIGFPE`, `SIGILL`, `SIGSEGV`, or `SIGBUS` signals are generated while they are blocked, the result is undefined, unless
the signal was generated by the action of another process, or by one of the functions `kill()`, ``pthread_kill()`, `raise()`, or `sigqueue()`.
If `sigprocmask()` fails, the thread's signal mask shall not be changed.
The use of the `sigprocmask()` function is unspecified in a multi-threaded process.


## Return value


Upon successful completion `pthread_sigmask()` shall return `0`; otherwise, it shall return the corresponding error
number.
Upon successful completion, `sigprocmask()` shall return `0`; otherwise, `-1` shall be returned, `errno` shall be set to
indicate the error, and the signal mask of the process shall be unchanged.


## Errors


The `pthread_sigmask()` and `sigprocmask()` functions shall fail if:


 * `EINVAL` - The value of the how argument is not equal to one of the defined values.

The `pthread_sigmask()` function shall not return an error code of `EINT`.


## Tests

Untested

## Known bugs

None

## See Also 
1. [Standard library functions](../README.md)
2. [Table of Contents](../../../README.md)
