tests/README.md, before:

# Testing process

The testing process uses a Phoenix-RTOS testing framework written in Python. The framework provides an environment for running both unit and functional tests.
Unit tests are written using [Unity](http://www.throwtheswitch.org/getting-started-with-unity) and the process is adapted to it.

Tests, in general, are launched using test runner, placed in [phoenix-rtos-tests](https://github.com/phoenix-rtos/phoenix-rtos-tests) repository.
Read more about the reference project repository [here](../building/project.md).

## Using test runner locally

The simplest way to run tests is launching `runner.py` locally.
The example below shows how to run all tests for the `ia32-generic-qemu` target architecture.

First, build the system image with a serial console and the test component:

```
TARGET=ia32-generic-qemu CONSOLE=serial ./phoenix-rtos-build/build.sh all test
```

For more information about building script please see the [building script](../building/script.md) chapter.

In the next step, change the directory to `phoenix-rtos-tests` and run the following command:

```bash
python3 runner.py -T ia32-generic-qemu
```

The expected output is shown in the screenshot below:

<img src="_images/runner-output.png" width="600px">

There is also a possibility to run tests from a specified directory:

<img src="_images/runner-output-sample.png" width="600px">

For more runner options type:

```bash
python3 runner.py --help
```

<img src="_images/runner-help.png" width="600px">

## Using test runner via Github Actions

Creating pull requests and pushing to master or feature/* branches of `phoenix-rtos` Github repositories triggers Github Actions in order to run tests.
When a new contributor creates first pull request it has to be approved before actions run.

Workflows can be traced in the checks tab in a pull request:

<img src="_images/gh-actions.png" width="1400px">

Device targets are tested on self-hosted Phoenix-RTOS test units.

## See also

1. [Table of Contents](../README.md)

Commit message:

Added section about tests setup DONE: RTOS-349

tests/README.md, after:

# Testing process

The testing process uses a Phoenix-RTOS testing framework written in Python. The framework provides an environment for running both unit and functional tests.
Unit tests are written using [Unity](http://www.throwtheswitch.org/getting-started-with-unity) and the process is adapted to it.

Tests, in general, are launched using test runner, placed in [phoenix-rtos-tests](https://github.com/phoenix-rtos/phoenix-rtos-tests) repository.
Read more about the reference project repository [here](../building/project.md).

## Using test runner locally

### One time setup
Python packages required by the testing script have to be installed.

To do this change the directory to `phoenix-rtos-tests` and run
```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running tests

The simplest way to run tests is launching `runner.py` locally.
The example below shows how to run all tests for the `ia32-generic-qemu` target architecture.

First, build the system image with a serial console and the test component:

```
TARGET=ia32-generic-qemu CONSOLE=serial ./phoenix-rtos-build/build.sh all test
```

For more information about building script please see the [building script](../building/script.md) chapter.

In the next step, change the directory to `phoenix-rtos-tests` and run the following command:

```bash
python3 runner.py -T ia32-generic-qemu
```

The expected output is shown in the screenshot below:

<img src="_images/runner-output.png" width="600px">

There is also a possibility to run tests from a specified directory:

<img src="_images/runner-output-sample.png" width="600px">

For more runner options type:

```bash
python3 runner.py --help
```

<img src="_images/runner-help.png" width="600px">

## Using test runner via Github Actions

Creating pull requests and pushing to master or feature/* branches of `phoenix-rtos` Github repositories triggers Github Actions in order to run tests.
When a new contributor creates first pull request it has to be approved before actions run.

Workflows can be traced in the checks tab in a pull request:

<img src="_images/gh-actions.png" width="1400px">

Device targets are tested on self-hosted Phoenix-RTOS test units.

## See also

1. [Table of Contents](../README.md)
