corelibs/README.md, before:

# Libraries

Phoenix-RTOS provides libraries, which enable the development of applications.

The source code is available in the [phoenix-rtos-corelibs](https://github.com/phoenix-rtos/phoenix-rtos-corelibs) Github repository.
The example of usage can be found in the `_user` directory, placed in [phoenix-rtos-project](https://github.com/phoenix-rtos/phoenix-rtos-project).

Read more about reference project repository [here](../project.md).

There are following Phoenix-RTOS libraries:

- [Graphics library](libgraph.md) called `libgraph`, which provides drivers for graphic adapters,
- Common Gateway Interface library called `libcgi`,
- Video Graphics Array access library called `libvga`, used in graphic adapters implementation, for example Cirrus,
- Virtual I/O Device library called `libvirtio`, used for device emulation,
- Universally Unique identifiers library(libuuid.md) called `libuuid`

<!-- #TODO: add chapters on how to use each of this library in separate chapters -->

## See also

1. [Table of Contents](../README.md)

Commit message:

Add libcache documentation
JIRA: RTOS-204

corelibs/README.md, after:

# Libraries

Phoenix-RTOS provides libraries, which enable the development of applications.

The source code is available in the [phoenix-rtos-corelibs](https://github.com/phoenix-rtos/phoenix-rtos-corelibs) Github repository.
The example of usage can be found in the `_user` directory, placed in [phoenix-rtos-project](https://github.com/phoenix-rtos/phoenix-rtos-project).

Read more about reference project repository [here](../project.md).

There are following Phoenix-RTOS libraries:

- [Graphics library](libgraph.md) called `libgraph`, which provides drivers for graphic adapters,
- Common Gateway Interface library called `libcgi`,
- Video Graphics Array access library called `libvga`, used in graphic adapters implementation, for example Cirrus,
- Virtual I/O Device library called `libvirtio`, used for device emulation,
- Universally Unique identifiers library(libuuid.md) called `libuuid`
- [Cache library](libcache.md) called `libcache` which provides the user with n-way set-associative cache

<!-- #TODO: add chapters on how to use each of this library in separate chapters -->

## See also

1. [Table of Contents](../README.md)
