###Synopsis
`#include <stdlib.h>`

`long a64l(const char *s);`

###Description
Convert a radix-64 ASCII string to a `32`-bit long integer.

Arguments:
<u>s</u> - a pointer to a radix-`64` representation, in which the first digit is the least significant.

The `a64l()` function takes a pointer to a radix-`64` representation, in which the first digit is the least significant, and returns the corresponding long value. If the string pointed to by <u>s</u> contains more than six characters, `a64l()` uses the first six. If the first six characters of the string contain a null terminator, `a64l()` uses only characters preceding the null terminator. The `a64l()` function scans the character string from left to right with the least significant digit on the left, decoding each character as a `6`-bit radix-`64` number. If the type `long` contains more than `32` bits, the resulting value is sign-extended. The behavior of `a64l()` is unspecified if <u>s</u> is a `null` pointer or the string pointed to by <u>s</u> was not generated by a previous call to `l64a()`.

###Return value
Upon successful completion, `a64l()` returns the long value resulting from conversion of the input string. If a string pointed to by <u>s</u> is an empty string, `a64l()` returns `0L`. 

###Errors
No errors are defined.

###Comments
This function maintain numbers stored in radix-`64` ASCII characters. This is a notation by which `32`-bit integers can be represented by up to six characters; each character represents a digit in radix-`64` notation. If the type long contains more than 32 bits, only the low-order 32 bits shall be used for these operations.
The characters used to represent digits are:
 `'.'` (dot) for `0`,
 `'/'` for `1`, 
 `'0'` through `'9'` for `[2,11]`, 
 `'A'` through `'Z'` for `[12,37]`,
 `'a'` through `'z'` for `[38,63]`.
So `123` = `59` * `64`^`0` + `1` * `64`^`1` = "v/".
